People often combine foods. For example, chocolate and peanut butter might be considered a tasty combination. But eating chocolate and taking certain drugs might carry risks. In fact, eating chocolate and taking monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors, such as Nardil (phenelzine) or Parnate (tranylcypromine), could be dangerous.人们经常会组合食物。例如，巧克力和花生酱可能被认为是美味的组合。但是，吃巧克力同时服用某些药物可能会带来风险。事实上，巧克力如果与单胺氧化酶（MAO）抑制剂（如：苯乙肼或强内心百乐明）同吃的话会很危险。12MAO inhibitors treat depression. Someone who eats an excessive amount of chocolate after taking an MAO inhibitor may experience a sharp rise in blood pressure.MAO抑制剂用于治疗抑郁症。有些人在服用MAO抑制剂后食用过多的巧克力会导致血压的急剧上升。Other foods that should be avoided when taking MAO inhibitors: aged cheese, sausage, bologna, pepperoni, and salami. These foods can also cause elevated blood pressure when taken with these medications.其他在服用MAO抑制剂时应该避免的食物：陈年奶酪、香肠、腊肠、意大利辣香肠和意大利腊肠。吃这些食物同时服用这些药物也会导致血压升高。Drugs with Dietary Supplements 药物与膳食补充剂Research has shown that 50 percent or more of American adults use dietary supplements on a regular basis, according to congressional testimony by the Office of Dietary Supplements in the National Institutes of Health.根据美国国立卫生研究院膳食补充剂办公室在国会的证言，研究表明50%或更多的美国成年人定期服用膳食补充剂。Examples of drug interactions with dietary supplements …药物与膳食补充剂相互作用的实例：Vitamin E维生素ETaking vitamin E with a blood-thinning medication such as Coumadin can increase anti-clotting activity and may cause an increased risk of bleeding.维生素E与血液稀释剂（如：香豆素）同时服用会增加抗凝血活性，导致增加出血的风险。Ginseng人参This herb can interfere with the bleeding effects of Coumadin. In addition, ginseng can enhance the bleeding effects of heparin, aspirin, and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as ibuprofen, naproxen, and ketoprofen. Combining ginseng with MAO inhibitors such as Nardil or Parnate may cause headache, trouble sleeping, nervousness, and hyperactivity.这种药草能干扰香豆素的出血作用。此外，人参还能增强肝素、阿司匹林以及和非甾体类抗炎药（如：布洛芬、萘普生和酮洛芬）的出血作用。人参与MAO抑制剂（如：苯乙肼或强内心百乐明）同时服用会导致头疼、失眠、焦虑和多动症。Ginkgo biloba银杏叶 High doses of the herb Ginkgo biloba could decrease the effectiveness of anticonvulsant therapy in patients taking the following medications to control seizures: Tegretol, Equetro or Carbatrol (carbamazepine), and Depakote (valproic acid).大剂量的银杏叶可降低患者服用以下药物控制癫痫发作的抗惊厥疗效：痛痉宁、卡巴可（卡马西平）、以及双丙戊酸钠（丙戊酸）。（来源：美国食品药品管理局）（感谢世界卫生组织新发传染病监测研究与培训合作中心陈伟师博士提供专业指导）统筹：宁可儿制作：曦檬子往期精选【戳下方标题】 《普洱茶致癌 ？实验室结果让你秒懂真相》 《多人感染___病毒死亡！央视已报道！速来看真相》