欢迎点击【药用植物研究前沿】↑关注我们！内容来源于Front Pharmacol临床实践中，中药常以复方入药以达到最佳治疗效果。然而，针对中药复方组合机制研究较少。近期，北京大学叶敏研究团队发表在“Front Pharmacol”名为“A 42-Markers Pharmacokinetic Study Reveals Interactions of Berberine and Glycyrrhizic Acid in the Anti-diabetic Chinese Medicine Formula Gegen-Qinlian Decoction”的论文对葛根芩连汤中黄连素与甘草酸的药物相互作用进行了研究。该研究团队通过药代动力学药物相互作用研究对抗糖尿病复方中药葛根芩连汤的协同作用进行了探讨。该团队采用液质联用法，通过同时测定了30min内大鼠血浆中的42种主要活性成分，对葛根芩连汤和单味药进行了多组分药代动力学研究。葛根芩连汤组分中药甘草中甘草酸的存在显著提高了黄连中黄连素和其它生物碱的血浆浓度。Caco-2细胞单层试验表明，甘草酸通过抑制P-糖蛋白活性提高了黄连素的通透性。虽然甘草酸单独使用不具备抗糖尿病的作用，但甘草酸和黄连素联合使用可明显增强黄连素抗小鼠糖尿病的作用，血糖下降46.9%，胰岛素水平较对照组升高40.8%，且具有剂量依赖性。该研究结果表明，药代动力学研究对于阐明中药复方组合机理具有重要意义。Front Pharmacol 2018;9:622 doi:10.3389/fphar.2018.00622A 42-Markers Pharmacokinetic Study Reveals Interactions of Berberine and Glycyrrhizic Acid in the Anti-diabetic Chinese Medicine Formula Gegen-Qinlian Decoction.Herbal medicines are commonly used as compound formulas in clinical practice to achieve optimal therapeutic effects. However, the combination mechanisms usually lack solid evidence. In this study, we report synergistic interactions through altering pharmacokinetics in Gegen-Qinlian Decoction (GQD), an anti-diabetic Chinese medicine formula. A multi-component pharmacokinetic study of GQD and the single herbs was conducted by simultaneously monitoring 42 major bioactive compounds (markers) in rats plasma using LC/MS/MS within 30 min. GQD could remarkably improve the plasma concentrations of berberine (BER) and other alkaloids in Huang-Lian by at least 30%, and glycyrrhizic acid (GLY) from Gan-Cao played a major role. A Caco-2 cell monolayer test indicated that GLY improved the permeability of BER by inhibiting P-glycoprotein. Although GLY alone did not show observable effects, the co-administration of GLY (ig, 50 or 80 mg/kg) could improve the anti-diabetic effects of berberine (ig, 50 mg/kg) in db/db mice in a dose-dependent manner. The blood glucose decreased by 46.9%, whereas the insulin level increased by 40.8% compared to the control group. This is one of the most systematic studies on the pharmacokinetics of Chinese medicine formulas, and the results demonstrate the significance of pharmacokinetic study in elucidating the combination mechanisms of compound formulas.如有投稿、建议、交流或发现违法、侵权、不良信息等，请发送邮件至yyzwyjqy@163.com与我们联系。 原文链接请点击下方阅读原文