GuHong injection, an intravenous herbal formulation, is licensed by the Chinese NMPA as an adjunct therapy for ischemic stroke and related symptoms. Each milliliter of GuHong comprises an aqueous extract of 0.5 g Carthamus tinctorius flowers (known as “Honghua” in Chinese) and 30 mg of N-acetyl-L-glutamine. The efficacy of GuHong in treatment of acute ischemic stroke has been demonstrated through a multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, which involved 1,999 patients with acute ischemic stroke[27]; the administration of GuHong alongside conventional management resulted in a higher proportion of patients with 90-day modified Rankin scale (the primary endpoint and long-term outcome measure in stroke trials) of 0 to 2 (73.9%) when compared to conventional management alone (67.5%; P < 0.001). Another multi-center clinical trial, which involved 399 patients with acute ischemic stroke, showed that GuHong, when used alongside basic treatment, outperformed butylphthalide in reduction of 14-day National Institute of Health Stroke Scale scores (short-term outcome measure in stroke trials; −2.33 versus −1.45, P < 0.0001)[28]. Animal studies demonstrated that GuHong facilitated post-stroke functional recovery via attenuating cortical inflammation and apoptosis in the subacute stage of ischemic stroke[29–30]. Following the initial treatment of acute ischemic stroke with intravenous thrombolysis within 4.5 hours of symptom onset, subsequent management includes antiplatelet therapy, anticoagulation, lipid-lowering therapy, blood pressure control, glycemic regulation, as well as neuroprotective and supportive interventions[31]. Thus, GuHong, when used in the treatment of acute ischemic stroke, is typically co-administered with various synthetic drugs. Therefore, its potential for pharmacokinetic drug interactions warrants careful assessment.GuHong injection was manufactured by Tonghua Guhong Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Tonghua, Jilin Province, China) with the Chinese NMPA drug ratification number of GuoYaoZhunZi-H22026582. Each milliliter of GuHong is prepared from 0.5g Honghua and 30mg N-acetyl-L-glutamine, and the final product is a sterile and nonpyrogenic formulation for intravenous administration. Samples of six lots of GuHong were obtained from Tonghua GuHong Pharmaceutical to determine the herbal injection’s chemical composition and lot-to-lot variability. Honghua (Carthamus tinctorius flowers) was also provided by Tonghua GuHong Pharmaceutical. To support the composition analysis of GuHong, the component herb Honghua was pulverized and subjected to ultrasonicassisted extraction three times with 50% methanol for analysis. A 5% glucose injection (GuoYaoZhunZi-H12020021) was obtained from Otsuka Pharmaceuticals (Dalian, Liaoning Province, China). Reference standards of hydroxysafflor yellow A, kaempferol-3-O-sophoroside, kaempferol-3-O-rutinoside, coumaric acid-4-O-glucoside, p-coumaric acid, and chlorogenic acid were purchased from Chroma Biotechnology (Chengdu, Sichuan Province, China). N-Acetyl-L-glutamine, adenosine 5′-triphosphate (ATP), and adenosine 5′-monophosphate (AMP) were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich (St. Louis, MO, USA). N-Acetyl-DL-glutamine-2,3,3,4,4-d was purchased from Isoreag (Isoscience, King of Prussia, PA, USA). 8-Hydroxycinnamic acid-8-O-glucoside was isolated from Honghua and purified with its chemical structure elucidated using a Bruker AVANCE III-500 MHz spectrometer (Bremen, Germany) [Supplementary Table S1, https://links.lww.com/AHM/A174]. The purity of the preceding reference standards and the isolated compound was ≥98%.To assess the metabolism potential of intravenous hydroxysafflor yellow A, several in vitro metabolism studies were conducted by incubating the compound with reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH)-fortified RLM and HLM (for cytochrome P450-mediated oxidation; midazolam used as positive substrate), reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH)-fortified RLC and HLC (for aldehyde dehydrogenase-mediated oxidation; protocatechuic aldehyde), uridine 5′-diphospho-glucuronic acid (UDPGA)- fortified RLM and HLM (for uridine diphosphateglucuronosyltransferase-mediated glucuronidation; chrysin), 3′-phosphoadenosine-5′-phosphosulfate (PAPS)-fortified RLC and HLC (for sulfotransferase-mediated sulfation; 7-hydroxyflavone), or glutathione (for glutathione conjugation), under the conditions for the metabolic reactions as described previously[39–40]. Furthermore, two-step metabolism was assessed for hydroxysafflor yellow A, that is, P450-mediated oxidation followed by catechol-O-methyltransferase-mediated methylation and P450-mediated oxidation followed by glutathione conjugation. Given that intravenous hydroxysafflor yellow A is poorly excreted into bile, intestinal microbiotamediated reduction or dehydration was not considered for this compound. Moreover, hydroxysafflor yellow A does not contain a catechol moiety or nitrogen atom; therefore, neither catechol-O-methyltransferasemediated methylation nor N-acetyltransferase-mediated acetylation was considered for this compound.Induction of CYP1A2, CYP2B6, and CYP3A4 by the test GuHong compounds hydroxysafflor yellow A, kaempferol-3-O-rutinoside, kaempferol-3-O-sophoroside, 8-hydroxycinnamic acid-8-O-glucoside, coumaric acid-4- O-glucoside, chlorogenic acid, and N-acetyl-L-glutamine was assessed using cryopreserved human hepatocytes from three donors (DJJ, NHI and YNS) in triplicate at concentrations of 1 , 5 , and 50-fold of the unbound C m a x of human subjects receiving intravenous GuHong at labeled dose, while for MGHC the test concentrations was 1 , 5 . , and 50-fold of total unbound C m a x . Cell culture and induction studies were performed as previously described[9,26]. The negative control was a 0.08% DMSO solution. Positive inducers for CYP1A2, CYP2B6, and CYP3A4 were omeprazole (50 μmol/L), phenobarbital (1 mmol/L), and rifampin (20 μmol/L), respectively. Fold induction was calculated using both enzyme activity and mRNA levels. The probe substrates for CYP1A2, CYP2B6, and CYP3A4 were phenacetin (100 μmol/L), bupropion (250 μmol/L), and midazolam (8 μmol/L), respectively. Differential enzyme activity between treated and untreated cells was defined as the treated/untreated cell ratio of enzyme activity (EA-T/U ratio) by measuring metabolite concentrations. A ratio of ≥2 for a test compound and a ratio of ≥20% of the positive control from at least one of the three donors indicated a positive induction. Cellular enzyme mRNA levels were determined by SYBR-based quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) analysis. The relative quantity of the target mRNA was determined using the ΔΔCt method. For the test compound, a ratio of enzyme mRNA levels between the treated and untreated cells (mRNA-T/U ratio) of ≥4 from at least one of the three donors indicated a positive result.Quantification of N-acetyl-L-glutamine (81), L-glutamine, N-acetyl-DL-glutamine-2,3,3,4,4-d , and L-glutamine-2,3,3,4,4-d in the biosamples was also conducted using a TSQ Vantage mass spectrometer interfaced via an HESI source with an Agilent 1290 infinity LC system. Biosamples were prepared by precipitation with three volumes of acetonitrile and the supernatants obtained after centrifugation were used for analysis. LC separation was achieved on a 3-μm Luna HILIC column (50 mm × 3 mm i.d.; Torrance, CA, USA) using a mobile phase, consisting of solvent A (water, containing 10 mmol/L ammonium formate and 37.5 mmol/L formic acid), and solvent B (water/acetonitrile, 5:95, containing 2 mmol/L ammonium formate and 37.5 mmol/L formic acid). The mobile phase was delivered at 0.3 mL/ min using a 15-minute gradient program consisting of 0 to 6 min at 95% to 90% solvent B, 6.1 to 10 min at 70% solvent B, and 10.1 to 15 min at 95% solvent B. For MS analysis, the ESI source worked in the positive ion mode with optimal precursor-to-product ion pairs for multiple reaction monitoring of 81, L-glutamine, N-acetyl-DL-glutamine- · 2 , 3 , 3 , 4 , 4 - d , and L-glutamine- + 2 , 3 , 3 , 4 , 4 – d , at m/z 189.1 → 130.0, 147.0 1 3 0.0 , 1 9 4.1 1 3 5.0 . , and 1 5 2.0 1 3 5.0 . respectively. Quantification of these compounds in the biosamples was achieved using matrix-matched calibration with the respective reference standards. The calibration curves exhibited good linearity ( r 2 > 0.9 9 ) . Assay validation was performed according to the ICH M10 Guideline, demonstrating that the assay was reliable and reproducible for the intended use. In addition, chiral chromatographic separation for levorotatory and the dextrorotatory enantiomers of N-acetyl-DL-glutamine-2 , 3 , 3 , 4 , 4 - d , was achieved on a 3-μm chiralpak ZWIX(-) column (150 mm × 3 mm i.d.; Illkirch, France) using a mobile phase, consisting of solvent A (water, containing 10 mmol/L ammonium formate and 25 mmol/L formic acid) and solvent B (acetonitrile/methanol, 65:35, containing 10 mmol/L ammonium formate and 25 mmol/L formic acid). The mobile phase was delivered at 0.3 mL/ min using a 7-minute gradient program that consisted of 0 to 3 min at 100% solvent B, 3.1 to 5 min at 60% solvent B, and 5.1 to 7 min at 100% solvent B.Quantification of significantly in vivo-exposed compounds originating from Honghua in biosamples was conducted on a TSQ Vantage mass spectrometer (Thermo Fisher, San Jose, CA, USA), interfaced via an HESI source with an Agilent 1290 infinity LC system (Waldbronn, Germany). Biosamples were prepared by precipitation with three volumes of methanol, and the supernatants obtained after centrifugation were used for analysis. LC separation was achieved on a 3-μm CAPCELL PAK C18 MGⅡ column (50 mm × 2mm i.d.; Osaka, Japan) using a mobile phase, consisting of solvent A (water, containing 2.5 mmol/L formic acid) and solvent B (methanol, containing 2.5 mmol/L formic acid). The mobile phase was delivered at 0.3 mL/min using a 10-minute gradient program that consisted of 0 to 0.5 min at 2% solvent B, 0.5 to 7 min at 2% to 70% solvent B, 7.1 to 8 min at 70% to 98% solvent B, and 8.1 to 10 min at 2% solvent B. For MS analysis, the ESI source worked in the negative ion mode with optimal precursorto-product ion pairs for multiple reaction monitoring of hydroxysafflor yellow A (1), saffloquinoside D (2), kaempferol-3-O-rutinoside (21), kaempferol-3-Osophoroside (22), 8-hydroxycinnamic acid-8-O-glucoside (51), coumaric acid-4-O-glucoside (52), chlorogenic acid (53), at m/z 611.0 → 491.1, 611.0 → 491.15, 593.2 → 284.5, 609.1 → 449.1, 325.1 → 119.1, 325.0 → 119.1, 353.0 → 191.0, respectively. Quantification of these significantly in vivo-exposed compounds in biosamples was achieved by matrix-matched calibration with the respective reference standards, except for 2, which was calibrated with the structurally similar reference standard hydroxysafflor yellow A. The calibration curves exhibited good linearity ( r 2 > 0.9 9 ) . Assay validation was performed according to the ICH M10 Guideline. The lower limit of quantification in human plasma was 9.77 nmol/L for 21, 22, 19.53 nmol/L for 1, 2, 51, 52, and 53. The intra-batch accuracy and precision were 86% to 114% and 1.2% to 14.4%, respectively, for human plasma, and 90% to 114% and 1.1% to 14.2%, respectively, for human urine. The inter-batch accuracy and precision were 86% to 110% and 3.5% to 20.0%, respectively, for human plasma and 91% to 114% and 1.3% to 18.1%, respectively, for human urine. The coefficients of variation reflecting the matrix effects were 2.5% to 14.1% for human plasma and 3.1% to 15.0% for human urine. Analyte stability under conditions mimicking the analytical process was also evaluated in human plasma and urine, including storage at room temperature for 4 h, storage in an autosampler for 24 h, and three freeze-thaw cycles. The analytes were stable under the test conditions, as indicated by the measured mean concentrations fluctuating within 85% to 114% and 88% to 114% of the nominal concentrations for human plasma and urine, respectively. Carryover in the blank sample, following the upper limits of quantification, was negligible for these analytes. All preceding validation results suggested that the assay was reliable and reproducible for the intended use.
Results
Figure 4 shows the human plasma concentration-time profiles of 1, 2, 21, 22, 51, 52, and 53 after intravenous administration of GuHong, and Table 2 summarizes their pharmacokinetic parameters. All these Honghua compounds exhibited small apparent distribution volumes ( V s s , 0.1 2 – 0.4 6 L / k g ) ; this was due, at least in part, to their poor membrane permeability. The total plasma clearance ( C L t o t , p ) values of 1 and 2 were significantly lower than that of 52, which were in turn significantly lower than those of 21, 22, 51, and 53. The elimination of 1, 2, and 52 was based on renal excretion, with fractions of doses excreted into urine ( f e - u ) c ranging from e-u79.4% to 95.6% (mainly via glomerular filtration), and their differences in C L t o t , p appeared to be associated with their unbound fractions in plasma ( f u ) . Unlike these compounds, 21 and 22 were likely eliminated mainly via hepatobiliary excretion (mediated by OATP1B1/1B3 for sinusoidal uptake and MDR1/BCRP/MRP2 for canalicular efflux; Table 3), whereas their renal clearance ( C L R , mediated by tubular secretion via OAT1/2/3) accounted for only 7.9% to 14.4% of the respective excretion of 51 and 53 was also significant C L t o t . p . ( f e - u 5 4.8 \% - 65.8%) and appeared to involve tubular secretion, which could be mediated by OAT1/2/3 (Table 3). Hepatobiliary excretion, mainly mediated by OATP1B3 for sinusoidal uptake, might also contribute to the elimination of 51 and 53. Owing to the joint differences in V s s and C L t o t , p , 1 had a longer mean elimination half-life ( t 1 / 2 , 3.9 tot,p hours) than the other Honghua compounds (<1.7 hours); 21 and 22 exhibited very short t 1 / 2 (<5 minutes). No significant accumulation of circulating Honghua compounds occurred during the seven consecutive days of repeated doses of GuHong. No significant sex differences were observed in the human pharmacokinetics of Honghua compounds (Table 2).To predict human liver exposure to Honghua compounds, additional studies were conducted in rats. Before using the rat liver exposure data, an interspecies comparison was performed, showing comparable plasma and urinary pharmacokinetics of Honghua compounds in rats and humans following intravenous administration of GuHong (Figure 3 and Table 1). To enable a more precise interspecies comparison, the transporter-mediated hepatic disposition was evaluated in vitro using both rat and human transporters (Table 3). The effects of the rat transporters on the hepatic disposition of the flavonoids hydroxysafflor yellow A (1), saffloquinoside D (2), kaempferol-3-O-rutinoside (21), and kaempferol-3-O-sophoroside (22) were comparable to those of their human counterparts. Hepatic uptake of the phenolic acids 8-hydroxycinnamic acid-8-O-glucoside (51) and chlorogenic acid (53) could be mediated by human OATP1B3 and OAT2 and by rat Oat2. For coumaric acid-4-O-glucoside (52), neither human nor rat transporters mediated its hepatic uptake. As shown in Figure 3, the tissue distribution study in rats indicated that all major circulating Honghua compounds exhibited significant liver exposure, whereas Honghua compounds with limited or negligible presence in the bloodstream were similarly undetectable in the liver. Among the major circulating compounds, 1 and 2 exhibited lower liver exposure levels than their respective systemic exposure levels, whereas 21 and 22 exhibited higher liver exposure levels than their respective systemic exposure levels. Honghua compounds 51, 52, and 53 exhibited liver exposure levels comparable to their respective systemic exposure levels.In China, herbal medicines are often used in combination with synthetic drugs to enhance therapeutic outcomes, such as improving efficacy or reducing toxicity[1–8]. Furthermore, patients with multiple comorbidities are frequently prescribed numerous medications, a practice known as polypharmacy. A key challenge in such combinations is minimizing pharmacokinetic drug interactions, which can result in therapeutic failure. Given the prevalence of drug interactions in clinical practice, ICH issued the M12 Guideline on Drug Interaction Studies in 2024. Drug interactions precipitated by natural products, including herbal medicines, also pose a significant concern in clinical settings[17–22]. However, the ICH guideline does not offer specific recommendations regarding which compounds of a complex herbal medicine that should be selected to assess the potential of the medicine to precipitate pharmacokinetic drug interactions. To address this gap, a multi-compound pharmacokinetic methodology has been developed to prioritize the in vivo-exposed compounds of herbal medicines for drug interaction studies[10,23–24]. With respect to the metabolizing enzymes and transporters highlighted in the ICH guideline, which are commonly involved in intestinal drug absorption and/or disposition, the in vivo-exposed compounds are those that exhibit significant exposure levels in the intestinal lumen, systemic circulation, and/or liver. For intravenous herbal medicines, such as GuHong, both systemic and liver exposure levels are critical for assessing their potential to precipitate drug interactions. For example, systemic exposure is associated with transporters, such as hepatic OATP1B1, OATP1B3, and OCT2, as well as renal OAT1, OAT3, and OCT2, whereas liver exposure is linked to the hepatic P450 enzymes CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A, as well as hepatic P-gp, BCRP, and MATE1. It is worth noting that systemic and liver exposure can differ substantially. For instance, significant liver exposure may be present with negligible systemic exposure, as well as notable differences in metabolite-to-precursor ratios between the two exposure sites[55–56]. This discrepancy arises because the liver exposure is influenced by hepatic drug transporters and/or metabolizing enzymes. While human systemic exposure data can be obtained directly through clinical pharmacokinetic studies, human liver exposure data are typically unavailable from such studies. In this investigation, systemic exposure data were obtained from a human pharmacokinetic study of GuHong. To assess liver exposure, additional studies were conducted using rats. Before using the rat liver exposure data, an interspecies comparison was conducted between rats and humans, focusing on the plasma and urinary pharmacokinetics of GuHong compounds (Figure 3 and Table 1). Another interspecies comparison was conducted for the GuHong compounds through multiple in vitro(Continued)In this investigation, seven in vivo-exposed compounds derived from the component Honghua were detected in human subjects who intravenously received GuHong. These Honghua compounds are primarily eliminated through renal and/or hepatobiliary excretion, rather than through glucuronidation. Following the recommendations of the ICH M12 Guideline, the potential for drug interactions involving these compounds through the inhibition of uridine diphosphate glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs) was not assessed in vitro. This decision also considered the generally limited magnitude of drug interactions mediated by UGT inhibition. Hydroxysafflor yellow A (1) is the most significant in vivo-exposed Honghua compound, exhibiting a range of properties, including antioxidant, antiinflammatory, neuroprotective, endothelium-protective, anti-thrombotic, anti-excitotoxic, anti-apoptotic, and autophagy-regulatory effects[57–61]. It was found that 1 exhibited characteristics of a hard drug, being predominantly eliminated through glomerular filtration-based renal excretion in its unchanged form (Table 2). “Hard drugs” refer to pharmacologically active compounds that undergo minimal or no metabolism[62–63]. A key advantage of hard drugs is that they reduce the risk of toxic metabolites and metabolism-based drug interactions. Several in vivo metabolites of hydroxysafflor yellow A have been reported in rats, including those formed through oxidation, glucuronidation, sulfation, and glutathione conjugation[64–66]. However, based on the results of the in vitro metabolism studies conducted in this study, the reported metabolites were either absent or negligible (Supplementary Figure S1, https://links.lww.com/AHM/ A174). In addition, after hydroxysafflor yellow A was administered intravenously to rats at a dose of 1.7 mg/ kg, 99.5% of the compound was excreted in the urine, with the reported metabolites being either undetectable or only negligibly present in plasma, urine, or bile samples. The characteristics of hard drugs and glomerular filtration-based renal excretion limit alterations in systemic exposure to 1 through the modulation of drug-metabolizing enzymes and drug transporters, thereby minimizing the risk of this compound being involved in drug interactions as an object. Although L-glutamine is a major metabolite of N-acetyl-L-glutamine (81), no dose-dependent ascendingdescending plasma concentration-time profile of L-glutamine was observed in human subjects following intravenous infusion of GuHong. Consequently, L-glutamine was not assessed in vitro for its potential to precipitate drug interactions. Given that renal acylase I-mediated hydrolysis to L-glutamine is a major elimination pathway for 81, the influence of acylase I inhibition or induction on systemic exposure to 81 warrants further evaluation.Our strategy, which employs a multi-compound pharmacokinetic study, effectively addresses the compound selection challenge and makes the ICH M12 Guideline applicable for assessing the drug interaction potential of complex herbal medicines. Given that the ICH Guideline provides general recommendations for assessing the drug interaction potential of investigational drugs, the resulting drug-enzyme/transporter interaction data require physicians to possess extensive knowledge of drug interactions to guide rational drug therapy, particularly in a polypharmacy context. Therefore, an additional drug interaction assessment is planned for GuHong when used in the management of ischemic stroke, tailored to the stroke patient population and therapeutic context. In further studies, both traditional and non-traditional pharmacokinetic drug interaction potentials will be considered. Traditional pharmacokinetic drug interactions normally involve drug-metabolizing enzymeor drug transporter–mediated interactions, whereas non-traditional pharmacokinetic drug interactions may involve factors such as disease conditions, lysosomes, intestinal microflora, and other related factors. For example, hydroxysafflor yellow A (1) has a small apparent volume of distribution at the steady state ( V s s ) Table 2), suggesting that this compound is primarily distributed in the plasma and extracellular fluid. Patients with ischemic stroke often experience cerebral edema, which can reduce cerebral exposure to 1 and, consequently, diminish its therapeutic effects. An assessment is required to evaluate the effect of a drug that alleviates stroke-induced edema on the systemic and cerebral exposure to 1.Table 4
Funding
None.